I'm sure we'll never tire of hearing that sound.
So now we're going to move on and add a couple of new features to our sound demo app.
The first of which is going to be adding a volume slider.
So very simply this will be a slider that the user can manipulate up and down and change the volume
of the sound within our app.
Then we'll bring in a second slide which will allow the user to seek back and forth between different
parts of our audio file.
This will give us a chance to use the seek bar in Android and also will come across the slightly mysterious
override command.
And I'll explain what that is.
When we get there.
All right let's get straight to it.
So we're going to start by bringing in our sick pal so we did that over in activity Maine at ex-MIL.
And here it is justin.
So let's drag that in.
Just underneath the pause button and there it is.
I'm going to see if I can just enlarge that a little bit.
And you can see when I drag that to the end it picked up the A-line parent and tick box.
So if I take a line parents start then that will align it with the start of the parent the parent being
the relative lay out.
So this part here you can see it's just dotted there.
OK.
So now we have our full with Ceiba.
I'm just going to give that an ID.
By double clicking on them.
So the idea is seek but in fact just keep it like that that's perfectly reasonable.
OK.
So now we're going to allow us to do something with that seek power either in our Java activity file.
So before we actually integrate our sick bar into our volume control I'm going to just see how we work
with I seek power independently of Audiard.
So what we'll do we'll make it so that when the user moves the bar the result of the resulting value
is displayed in the logs.
Simple as that.
So first of all we create our seek bar variable and to be able to use that we will of course need to
import the seek by widget so we can do that with import Android dot widget dot
seek PA.
Here it is.
So now we can create the seek bar var. and I'll call it volume control.
Even though as yet it's not doing any volume control.
And we're going to find that in just the same way that we found the buttons and labels earlier on in
the course.
So we're going to use find view by id and then our original series ID to get together all the IDs.
And there's my seek power there that by default will be a view and we want it to be a seek power.
So we're going to need to cast it to a bar by putting seat bar in brackets like that every we.
That still in red because it needs to be a capital B.
We got it to now we can use the volume control variable to reference the seek bar that we've created.
So if we want to kind of catch the event that when the user drags and takes their finger off the seek
bar what we do is we take our volume control variable and we had a Sikh bar change listener.
So we use set on seat bar change listener.
There we go.
So this is a listener so it will listen for the event that they seek by has been changed I that the
user has dragged it one way or the other.
And then this will be created.
As a new
and then seek bá on Seek bá change listener
and something's going wrong with the auto.
I predict that I want that to be that and then we're going to have a bunch of carried in the middle
of all of that.
There we go.
So what we've done is added a Sikh bar change listener and that has a type of seatback dot on C-card
change listener.
And then we can implement our code that we want to happen when the bar is changed here.
And I think we just need to import the seek bar on seek by change listener to pick that up.
OK.
So now there are a few possible events that could get us here.
This will be called.
This listener will be called whenever they seek bar starts to be changed or stops being changed by the
user.
But we don't really care about either of those events.
We want the one event when it has completely been changed and that event is on progress changed.
There it is.
So we've got some lovely diethyl CODEL.
We don't have to type out which is very handy and the main new thing that we're seeing there is overwrite.
So this at symbol and then overwrite what does that mean.
Well this on progress changed method that we've just created here is not a new method it's a method
that already exists and some things within the Android system will happen every time the bar is changed.
So what we're doing here is not creating a method but we're adding our own code to a method that already
exists.
And that's when you need the override command.
So in fact we've seen it up here and here as well and here so we've seen this override but we haven't
really talked about what it is and that's what's going on.
So this uncreate method is one that already exists within the Android system.
And when the app runs a bunch of stuff happens that we don't command it too but what we're doing here
is adding our own code to the uncreate method.
And that's when you use override.
So similarly down here these methods already exist.
We're just adding to them.
So now we're finally at the stage where we can write our code that we want to run when the bar is moved.
Just have a quick look at this method on progress changed it turns three variables the seek bar itself
so which seek bar has been moved the progress integer which is the number that we're particularly interested
in which is going to give us the value that we want which is how far up or down.
The second part the user has left it.
And then finally we get a true or false Boullion from user which tells us whether or not it was the
use of that change to seek power.
Or maybe we wrote some code to update the sequel which we actually will a little bit later on.
And then if it was our code that updated the seek bar value then this billion will be fals OK.
So let's now print that to the logs.
We'll do that using LOEG dot.
So I for info and then we'll call it seek by valley
and we want to know the value of this progress variable that we got.
And of course we want to add the log to our imports up here so that we can use it.
All right let's take a look.
So we should now finds that we have our Siba and when we drag it up and down the value of the Sikh bar
is displayed in the Lawks And then what we want to see here is progress but remember progress is an
integer.
And when we send things to the logs they need to be strings so we can convert that to a string using
integer dot to string.
And then the thing we want to convert to a string is progress as we go.
So we now pretty much done.
But if we try and run this we will see an error.
You can see I've got this red wiggly line so something's gonna go wrong if we try and run it.
Let's just see what that error is and then we'll fix it.
There we go I say this class here is not abstract and does not overwrite abstract method on stock tracking
touch and in and on Seek bar changelessness.
So what that means is as I mentioned before there are a couple of possibilities that can get us to this
chunk of code here.
Either the progress is changed or the user has just taken their finger off and not changed anything
or the user has just started to change his seat.
And what we need to do is implement methods for the other two possibilities even though we're not actually
going to be using them.
So let's just do that now.
So the first one is on start tracking touch.
So it's all been import imported for us.
So if we wanted to know when the user started tracking on the seat back then we would write some code
there but we don't so we can just leave that blank.
And the other one you may have seen it is on stop tracking touch.
There it is again if we wanted to know when the user stopped tracking on the search bar then we could
use that there.
But notice this one doesn't give you the actual value.
This is just a generic method for you to do something when they stop tracking on the seat.
So really the one that we're interested in here is they on progress changed because that gives you the
value that we're interested in.
OK so now we've given all the methods that are required for on Seek about change listener you can see
that the red wiggly line has gone away.
So now we should find that when we run this it will update the logs with the value of the symbol and
it will in fact do that while the user is moving the seat back.
So whenever the Sikh bar is changed that's when it will update the locks not just when the user removes
their finger from it.
So let's just get those logs showing.
And now if we jump over to the emulator there we see you can see it's now showing the valley and it
goes all the way up to 100 epitope
fantastic.
So that's how we work without Bob.
Now it's a matter of integrating this with the volume of our sound.
So to do this we're going to need an audio manager which allows us to interact with the android audio
system and change volume and things like that.
So I'm going to create it up here.
It's going to have a type of ODI manager and we'll call it audio manager
every day we need to import the class and it's not doing that automatically.
So I'll just add that manually it's import Android dot media dot Wardy I manage the there we get it
so now we've created out video manager variable and we can use it wherever we like.
So in the set up of our app we're going to want to do two things.
We're going to want to establish the maximum volume of the phone that we're working with and we want
to establish the current volume and then we'll use those to update the seek bar to start with.
So first off let's take out audio manager and set it up so that we can use it to work with the audio
system on the phone that the app is running on.
And we do this using GET system service and we get it from the context it's Boudia service.
And this allows us to work as I say with the audio on our device.
But we do need to cost this to the right type.
So we want to cast it to Audio Manager because that's the type of the variable that we have.
So now we can use that video manager to get information about the volume on the device at the moment.
And then we can change that manually as well.
So let's get first of all the maximum volume for our particular device that's going to be an integer
we'll call it max volume and to get that we use Odeo manager don't get stream at max volume.
There it is and the stream that we want to get is Odeo manager top stream music.
So this is the generic stream for playing sound and music within your apps.
So you may have seen there was another one there for alarms and phone volume etc. but we're interested
in essentially the media volume.
So that gives us the max volume for the music stream within our app which is what we're interested in.
Next we'll get the current volume
I'll call it curve volume and we get that in a very similar way.
So all the manager don't get stream volume everyday.
So that just gets the current volume.
And again we'll get that from Odai manager don't stream music as we go.
So now we know the maximum volume of our system and the current volume of our system.
So we need to set the maximum volume of our system to be the maximum value of the seatback because we
don't want them to be able to set the volume bigger than the maximum possible value.
So let's do that once we've gone to seek power.
We can then set the maximum.
So sick ball remember is called Volume control volume control don't set max and the max that we want
to set is max volume.
So now we've set the maximum.
Remember it was 100 by default but now it's going to be set to whatever the maximum volume of our system
is.
And we're also going to set the current value.
So volume control not set progress.
That's called progress because it's kind of considered to be a progress bar.
So if we want to set the current value that's setting the progress and we want to set that to the current
volume.
So if they've got the current volume at 70 percent of maximum then that will set our Sikh bar to 70
percent of the way along.
So that should set up our seek bar to work with the volume.
So the only thing we need to add now is instead of just printing to the logs we want to actually change
the volume.
So we will do that using Odeo manager don't set stream stream volume there it is and the stream that
we want to set is once again audion manager dot stream music and we want to set it to
progress.
And then my parents see that we need to add a flag variable which is why we can give some more information
if we want to but we don't.
We just want to set the volume so we just put a zero there.
All right.
So hopefully that will make sense.
We've created an audio manager variable which allows us to work with the volume and audio in general
on our system.
And we've worked out the maximum volume for the music stream and the current volume for the music stream
the music stream being the audio within our app Stream.
And then we've set the seek our maximum to the maximum volume of our system.
We've set the seek value to the current volume of our system and then we've changed it.
So when they use the updates they seek bar that will in turn update the stream volume.
All right let's check it out.
So that's a good sign First of all you can see that the sick bar is not at zero but it's around 70 80
percent there.
So if I now just play that every day.
So now if I crank it up
hopefully you can tell it that was loud.
And if I take it right down here there's no audio at all so I'll just play it quietly and then hopefully
you can just about hear the way we get we are changing the volume in real time that fantastic So now
we've got our seek power which changes the volume.
The last thing we're going to do in this video then is to create a new sleek ball which allows us to
scrub or seek to particular points within our audio file.
So here's a quick challenge for you.
Can you create a second seek out and give it a separate ID and then create all the necessary methods
for it just like we did here.
And for bonus points.
See if you can set the maximum value of this sequel to the length of the audio file that we've created
up here in the player so that we haven't seen how to do before.
You can either google it or try and figure it out from the possible within any player.
Don't do that but don't worry.
But that first challenge create a Sikh bar and set up all the methods for it should be fairly straightforward.
I'll give you a moment to do that.
All right here we go.
I am so over.
Activity mainsail exactly as before will take out Seek about and will drag it in.
There it is and offset the parent end and start as before.
And then seek Butsu.
It's not particularly instructive say
I'm going to call it scrub scrubbing being the general name for something that allows you to go back
and forth within an audio file.
So there we get we now have our scrubber So let's go back over to our java file and I'm not going to
copy and paste this time just so that we can see all the code again.
Let's start by the fact I'm going to Heidel that code that.
Let's start by finding our new Cederbaum create a variable called scrubber which will have a type of
seek power.
And I'm going to find it by its ID but I'll only to cast it as a seek bar and then find a view by id
resources dot ID dot scrubber.
There it is.
Now let's set the changes.
So scrub the dots set on seek change listener.
There it is.
And then we're going to do that with a new
on seek by change listener.
Now this time it's very kindly given us all of the methods that we need.
Fabulous I must have messed up the way to predict in some way to not get those last time but it gave
us the opportunity to take them out ourselves at least.
And then what I'm going to do is just to make sure that it's working.
I'm going to get rid of the log command from the previous
seek and then copy that in here.
And we'll change this to screw up the value just so that we know the part about getting the value of
and then the little bonus challenge was to set the maximum of our scrubber to the length of the audio
file.
And we do that using scrubber dot set max.
So exactly like we did before.
And then we're going to use player and if we just type don't afterwards.
You can see it predicts get duration that looks like it's going to be exactly what we want.
So that's what I was hoping you might do to figure out how to get the length of that audio file but
really don't worry if you didn't find that
OK.
So we'll just run that and make sure that that's all connected up nicely.
And we should of course find that we've now got a second seek bar with a maximum value equal to the
duration of the audio file.
And then when we move it up and down we can see the location
of the
so that we get fantastic.
So it's quite a big one
every guy we are lacking the small horizontal line there to show the limit of the CGC but I'm not sure
whether that's an error in my simulator or something to do with the height of that particular seat but
I'm not too worried about that.
So now the tricky bit.
We want to update this week about with the location of our audio file and there are a couple of ways
that we can do this.
But the simplest is to use a timer so we do that by creating a new timer.
And let's add that automatically for us so new timer.
And we want to create a shed Joe at fixed rate there we get.
And then within this time we want to create a new timer.
Task.
There we go.
It's done quite a bit of what they're predicting for us there.
And I'm just going to add in a couple of numbers to get rid of those errors.
But all of this is doing so there and a thousand does what we want.
OK.
So what's going on here is we're creating a shared pool at fixed rate which means we're scheduling a
certain task to be done at a fixed schedule so in our case every second and that task is a new time
a task which is created with what's known as a runnable which is essentially just a method which we
run regularly which is by default called Run and it's an override.
As we've seen before because we're adding to it rather than creating it and then down here these two
numbers give us the number of seconds before this time runs for the first time.
So we want zero seconds there because we don't need a delay before we want to start the timer.
And then this is the number of milliseconds between successive calls to the timer.
So basically all of this says run the code that we're going to run in here immediately.
And then every second.
So that's what this whole chunk of code is doing and what we want to do here is update our scrubber
seek power to show the location of the audio file.
So we just use scrubber to set progress just as before.
And then to get the progress we use mplayer don't and then you can see right there get current position
perfect
and that's it.
So this timer will run every second and we'll update the value of our scriber or the progress of our
seek Bob and show the current position of the audiophile
Let's take a look if we now click play make sure we've got some sound.
There we go.
So you can see it ran every seconds there.
Because we've got a very short order Europhile every second might not make sense.
So let's just update that to every tenth of a second.
And we should find
that the update is a bit more smooth.
There we get that up to you in terms of how efficient you needed that to be in your particular case.
But generally every second I would have thought would be fine but more media player app.
All right so we're nearly that what we don't have yet is the facility to actually scrub the music as
we drag this back and forth but that's pretty straightforward to add.
So this remember is the code that is called when our scrubber is changed.
So we want to do is update the current position of the video file so it will do that using player and
then seek to there we go.
So this will seek to a particular location or position and that position of course we want to be progress
which is the value of the seek power.
All right.
So with any luck they should now do everything that we want and will allow the user to seek back and
forth through the audio file as well as change the volume.
Let's give it a go.
If I can grab that very guy it sounds pretty horrendous with our particular file
but it is in fact working.
So here we go.
Let's play.
And if I can grab that guy.
That sounds pretty horrendous without particular audio file.
And I think my emulator is struggling to keep up with all of that.
And you might want to implement some kind of pool system which all set as a little challenge here.
You might just want to pause the audio when the user starts tracking and then restarted again when they
stop tracking.
And that will prevent that nasty effect of the audio playing during the week.
So just a little challenge there for you.
And then we're going to take a brief break from audio before we make the final lap of this section.